I've had a very troubled feeling for a while now. Ever since crucible in fact. And its only gotten worse as the months have progressed. First Tree Man was lost, then Radick. And I'm not so sure even I know whats going on any more. I'm calling myself Aruk, you all think I'm Aruk, but how do I know I am Aruk? 

Wasn't Aruk a mercenary? Willing to do anything for money? Look around us. Theres no gold here. There's no honor. The bloody cloaks are nowhere in sight. And yet I feel, I know that we are doing the right thing. Fighting the Itochel and making change. And I'm trying to understand how that can be the case. 

But its really quite easy. I'm not Aruk. Somewhere, either in the deal with the Idene, or lost somewhere in the zones, or stranded in the mists with Treeman, or crushed beneath the weight of a sky keep is the original Aruk. What the hell does that make me? What does that make any of us?

Aemon, I feel like I know. We started off together, even worked together all those long years ago in the village before we saw that strange light in the sky. And now the years have passed and still here he is again; darker perhaps, but here nonetheless.

But you Anka? I have no idea where you came from. We were just dragging ourselves out of the lake when you suddenly show up. And where from? The jungle. With ties to the Itochel no less! As we sit here, so close to hated Itochel magics, if I can ask myself who I am, I can certainly ask who the hell you are. There are too many secrets. Too many brushed off inquiries. And that sword! If you ask me, who ever I am, I say its a bit too convenient!

Aemon, don't you think a simpler explanation is that Anka is instead a spy of the itochel? What better way to undermine the force against them then to disguise one of their own as a friend? We've led her right into the heart of the zone, linked her up with her comrades.

Before we enter the ritual I can admit that I know my purpose if not myself. But I do not know Anka. I'm not allowing her to free their hated mage. You have to convince me that you are who you say you are. Proof or actions, words will no longer do. 

