Cynthestra Vataz d'Amare
(Formerly Xathic Marr, Litch)

Thousands of years ago, a sentient creature known as Xathic Marr of unknown origin and history solved the crypic puzzle required to acehive lichdom. Unleashing its power across the land, it darkened the sky with its minions and the screms of its prisoners could be heard from miles away. 

However, its dominion was not eternal. Whether it was a champion of good or a servant of evil selfish of Xathic's power, it found itself surrounded and killed.

Hundreds of years later, after the effects of its ruin had been long buried in time, the servant of a lawful good god gave the restless spirit of Xathic a choice. It could stay, imprisoned on the mortal world powerless as a spirit, or it could agree to be reincarnated provided it would be a force for good. 

Thesa, as she likes to be called, is a enchantress of middling power. What she lacks in raw strength she makes up in personal charisma and intelligent application of her art. She has vague memory of her former life, and is undoubtably as ambitious and cruel as Xathic ever was. 

However, her cruelty is tempered by the physical geas placed on her by the god. It comes in the form of manacles with properties shown below.

Trapped in what she considers a personal hell, she has no choice but to do good deeds across the land, even if her methods can still be brutal (For instance, using necromancy to defeat bandits)

However, her spirit is strong, and despite the joyful response of commoners she has helped, deep inside she hopes to rid herself of her fetters and regain her true power, now denied from her for so long.

Enchanting and spell creation:
Thesa has lived with magic all her life (and owes her life to it as well) She feels it instinctively, and it is as like to her as breathing. For some very large penalty she can enchant magical items and create scrolls and potions.
Possible costs:
All spell slots and sorcerer points for a period of time.
She can only ever use and enchant: enchantment, necromancy or transmutation spells 

Shackles of Emanon:

Appearance:
By default, these binds appear as glowing steel handcuffs. However, they can take the form of any handware (gauntlets, gloves, bracelets). Whatever the form, they must be white in color. Additionally, for a period of time, the gaunlets can be made invisible.

Physical Geas:
Specifically designed to hold evil doers of incredible power, the wearer of these shackles cannot use any spell cast for evil (Up to DM's discression) Furthermore, the wearer has a strong ever present mental force which attempts to coerce it into being Lawful Good.

Curse or Blessing?:
Once attached, the manacles cannot be removed by the wearer. Neither can they be incidently removed (by brushing against some other object, strong wind etc.) They can only be removed by another Lawful Good sentient creature aware that they are taking off the shackles. 





