Man comes down from the north: The deed of Dor. 

In the early days, men lived far to the north, hunted and afraid. The climate was cold and the very earth threatened to rob them of their lives.

However, out of such adversity came strength. The men of old were fewer, but greater. Each of them was as gods. They could rise mountains, shake the world and mold it to their will. 

And yet they were hunted an fought among themselves. Although they had power, they did not have yet civilization. It was a time of chaos and many died. Their skeletons formed the first of the great chains of mountains to the far north. Those that fled their ancestral homes crowded to the edge of the waters and beyond, forsaking the land in their fear. 

Dor the great was the first to take leadership among them. He saw that their infighting would be the death of them all; it had been so long since they had known purpose that none of them even remembers over what they fought. 

Bringing them together, he led them south into a new land. There they found the first of the elves, already old and wise. With the elves Dor made a pact, the river line would be their boundary. To the north would lie the humans, to the south would lie the elves. 

And it was peaceful for many years.

Yet a fragment of the chaos from that troubled time remained, tamed somewhat, but still quite alive.

It coelesced in the hearts of the other men of power, who were envious of what dor had been able to acomplish. Yet the hateful greed of future generations did not exist yet in the world.

Instead, the other men held a more naive and true form of competition within themselves: Dor was currently the strongest among them. Therefore it was right for them to struggle against him to prove their worth.

The mightiest among the contenders, whose name was Kerack, took the form of a mighty snake monster and did battle with Dor.

They fought for two years, smashing giant holes in the ground. Leveling the remains of mountains and building new ones in their struggle. 

Finally, Dor lifted his mighty axe and with one fell blow, struck the snake down. Such was the force of his blow that it crushed the earth below and opened a chasm. The waters of the river swirled and roiled and filled it completely. 

Then, with his last strength, dor rested against a mountainside and died. 





