
For a long time, the pact that Dor had made with the elves held. However, there rose among the populace a singular individual, who looked southward and saw a richer land. He was the first Despot.

He thought to himself, "Why are we satisfied with the elves having that land while we struggle to claw out our existence in the inhospitable mountains?" He rationalized this to himself, seeing their vastly lesser numbers: "They are not even using it to its full potential. We have the obligation to provide for our own and to utilize the land to its highest potential."

These were the words he spoke, and they ran among the land like a wildfire. Others heard the words and agreed. He was pursuasive because at his very core, he believed his words and saw no evil in them, merely the proper utilization of resources.

With the people he made a trade. Their liberty in return for security and riches. He arose a mighty army, the largest that had existed on earth.

Thus, for the first time in centuries, man cross the river that described the barrier between the two lands.

The elves, unaccostomed to war, or even strife in general could not understand their actions.   

It was only when the first of the great forest homes fell did their eye grow wide with understanding and they sought to construct weapons of war. 

They were hindered in their efforts by their very nature. Ishira, the god of the elves, who has existed as long as they have back to the creation of the world, was a peaceful god and refused her powers in war.

But the destruction of their home was too much for the elves, even peaceful as they were. The great circle rebelled against the teachings of Ishira and took her power for their own, to do with it what they will.

Those were dark times for the men. 

Despot sat in his original keep he had made for himself and trembled both in fear and in joy. Despite the set backs they had proven that man could take for themselves what they desired, and that, at its core was delirous to him.

The backstroke of the elves was sudden and terrible. Two cites fell in one night. The Towered City of Adze shuddered, its mighty gleaming minerets shaking before the fury of the elven clerics. The city sank slowly into a hole which filled with water, some escaped but were scarred by what they had seen.

The citizens of Mellont, then the capitol of mankind, were far less lucky. it was there that the full power of the elves was unleashed. At midnight, the moon shone with a sudden blinding light. The earth trembled before their outstretched hands and leapt into the air at their command. Walls crumbled, buildings crumbled. All were crushed. 

Men gaped in horror at the broken remains of what was left of their former capitol. The broken bodies had not fallen in conflict but had simply ceased to be. For men driven by honor and a warriors death it was horrifying.

A group of individuals in particular, survivors of that night, banded together. It was said that they were the first adventurers. The formed a pact called the Defenders of the Realm and agreed to drive back the elves. Among them were the master magic users Demetrion and Cerras. 

They had lost the rest of their family, and Cerras, his wife and child. 

Together they crafted the horrible devices known as elvesbane, walking bodies of metal but without soul or thought. In each of them, Cerras put a sliver of his own hatred. Through this, they channeled fires unquenchable except for by magic.

They showed what they had made to Despot and he was overjoyed and showered them with riches beyond comprehension.

Together they carved a stroke straight into the heart of the elven kingdom. The elves again tried to call upon their magics, but Ishira stopped them, leaving them defenseless. Without her help, they were destroyed and the great tree at the center of the kingdom fell.

When the tree fell, Ishira shattered into pieces and died, and was reborn as The Suture Queen, Aumnum-Ra and the scrolls of Ishira.

Greedily, Despot spread humanity wide and far in lands once elven, especially along the coast. 

It was there he built a new capitol of red stone and called it Arhal. Into it he put the most valuable things, drawn from the destruction of the elves and from the deepest mines of the earth. He wanted others to see the splendor that mankind could collect for itself. 

But over time he withdrew into himself. He grew fearful that others would steal *his* treasure. He forbid any visitors, even those with who he had once been close.

At this point, the entity known as Pluor came into being, the God of greed, opulence, trade, gold, merth, and excess. It reflected the characteristics of the people at the time.

The first great merchant families came into being, clawing at one another in order to secure profits. The last vestiges of the elves were dispersed and their wealth taken. Humanity spread far.

However, over time, his advisors foundered with lack of purpose. Then, seeing no other orders, broke into pieces. But Despot at this point was a god onto himself and his element was greed. He hated to lose anything, especially his kingdom.

A great civil war happened. On one side was the king, with greed encarnate. On the other, those trying to free themselves. 

Those of the north triumphed, at least enough to break free. 

The despot fell into a stupor and withdrew further into his own excess.

--------secret--------

At this loss, with his power at a nadir, the necromancer approached him, disgusted at the suffering the god had caused, and for its lack of reason.

He threw a geas about the red palace with its innumberable rooms filled with treasure and caused it to be forgotten.

He came and did battle with the god, driving several black rods/crystals into his massive corpulent body, ripping open his internal organs and trying each one to a rod. 

He then sealed the god with magic causing him to become forgotten as well. 

Satisfied, he left to let the god die. Pluor begins to be forgotten. he lives on as a fragment, but can no longer hear his worshippers. All  his threads have been severed.




