Nations:
South- Hereditary monarchy. The remains of the original human empire.  
North- Nominally a republic, currently operating as a military dictatorship. Broke away from the south.
Shani- Kleptocracy, has a monopoly over ocean going trade, mostly with the north. 
Fartheners- Loose confederacy of tribes.
Elves (fallen) - Theocracy, mostly secluded in Ankhsomar. 
Assorted Lowland city states and petty kingdoms.

Cities:
Arhal - The grand capital of the South and seat of power. An old city.
Crireton Bode - Seat of Duke Gerrant
Westfield- Former Southern agricultural city. Tenuously independent.
Surhal- Quiet fishing town. Founded at the same time as Arhal.
Havinsted - Largest of the independent lowland petty countries. Key in trade between the North and South. 


Gods:
Geremon of the infinite repose - lawful good death god
Kerack - Chaotic Neutral god of strength, war and strife
Plotweaver / Prince of Shadows - Chaotic Neutral god of deceit
Sea King / Lord of the Waves - True Neutral god of the Shani
Pluor, Lord of Opulence - Lawful Evil god of greed. Died following the breakup of the first human kingdom.
Ishira - Dead God of Elves and nature 
Garegal-> The earth spirit. 

Note that dead gods can still be worshiped. Above are the well known gods that usually temples. There exist a number of other cults which may have minor gods. 


The Duke's Men:
Lord Gerrant - Grand duke of the south. In his youth he was a outgoing and ambitious upstart. After a period of consolidation at the expense of the other nobility, his ambition culminated in a several year long military engagement with the north independent of the king. Despite initial successes he failed to take Illithar and borders remained relatively unchanged. Since then he had become colder and more withdrawn. His ambition has not changed however, but it seems he is playing his cards closer to his chest. 

Whether by luck or misfortune, he has three sons, which is bound to cause some problems in future inheritance. To make the matters worse, they are all magically gifted.

Lady Meredith - His quiet wife. It is rumored that this is his second marriage and that his sons are the result of his first. 
Lucard Gerrant - (29) Ice Mage, first son, takes after his father in his seriousness. Is perhaps a bit more devious. 
Serge Gerrant - (23) Fire Spellsword, more prone to impulse yet also more personable than his older brother.
Ellis Gerrant - (Teens) Mage in training, quiet and reclusive, bullied by brothers 

Eldon Guard - Duke's personal bodyguard. Was modeled off The First, a northern contingent of elite fighters composed of adventurers. This is the dukes version. Focusing more on hierarchy and physical combatants. It is composed of many diverse people, even some nonhumans. 
		Maria Harper - Head administrator 
		Alexander Comides - Head armorer
		Marcus McRellen - The duke's huntsman

House Soldiers


The Tower:
Often at odds with both the royalty and the duke, the tower of battlemages is an ancient institution. 
Their most important function is in enforcing the Law of Viridius, which puts all arcane magic users in the south under their jurisdiction.
People found to have magical powers are taken to the tower and guided on how to use them. 
