Havinstead has been paralyzed by bandits in the countryside. 
The council suspects both sides. 
Serge's interaction with them swayed the consideration against the south.
The council consists of three sides:
	-The North
		-Charles Gribard - Former veteran turned merchant. Popular with the fishermen, Shani, merchants, and craftsmen. Owns a "small" house in high hill but is often found in his office by the docks. 
	-The South
		-'Baroness' Victoria Lockton - A former noble, it is said she desires a return to the aristocracy of old. She is well spoken and popular with the rural landed elite as well as those of High Hill. Operates from her estate in Highhill but has holdings in the surrounding lands.
	-Independence
		-Sigfried Esseldorf 30s- red beard, youngest of the council, he remembers clearly the humiliation of the South, and desires a truly independent and active Havinstead. He has the backing of most of the urban Havinsteaders. Operates from a large Inn in the center of town. Took up the council seat after his uncle died.

A delegation is underway to gain backing of the Shani as collaboration between the independence and north movements. 

Perca Romanus Sellius - (Head preist of shani)

Eldorf Havin - founder of the city

The triumvariate operates a spy network in Havinstead. Main operator is Cynthia Butler.
She is a large woman who works as a baker in the Rambles

Solomon has a man in Havinstead named Jim Welsh who is a guard.

Head of city guard - Colonel 
Nils Haselrider - Pickpocket
Gustav Mahler - Small bald guy, plotweaver temple head.

Sargent Helga of northern secret service

Southern Names
Elena Miller
Thelma Smith

Northern names
Ernis Portier
Bruno Saint-pierre
Natacha Barbier

Havinstead Names 
Lilli Gesner

They enter the city, meet jim welsh. Meet the pickpocket nils who tells them about the city.
They encounter Sigfried who is giving a speech about the independence of Havinstead. He convinces Coin to open the gates of highhill in two days. Coin meets with Gustav Mahler, temple head, who tells Coin about Cynthia and that his prior group is looking for him. They talk to cynthia and she is confused by how solomon knows her. She explains that they should kill or kidnap seigfried. Just as they are talking, their cover is blown.


Big fight. ONe southern guy is killed. They killed the fighter and mage. The mooks escape, tricked costas. They captured one of them. They learned through orders that there's a meeting happening between Seigfried, Charles Gribard and the Perca.

Cynthia is going to kill seigfrieg. Costas sees the vote, talks with seigfried goes off with victoria. Loras tries to get a kid to kill seigfried. Cynthia and Iris set up in clocktower. Coin goes to meet seigreid.

Seigfreid has been swapped with Nils. REveals this to coin. Coin leaves to open gate. Other kid attacks Nils and wounds him. Guards choose a differnt path. Iris boosts cynthia and she hits Nils-Seigfried. The team moves in.

The crowd of villiagers incensed by the speech is let into highhill by Coin, who shouts Fickle is the Plotweaver as he does so.

They let one of seigfried's guards free and cynthia kills the other. 
Costis talks to Victoria 

Iris and Loras go to Seigfried's inn and find letters there connecting him to a deal with the Shani.
Seigfried is in a meeting with the shani pecate, and charles along with two deep ones. 
THey arrive at the temple and cynthia tries to kill seigfried. Coin intervenes. Costas calls out seigfried. Cynthis and Iris try going around the side and find treasure. 

