The First Revelation. It hit her one day. She didn't recall when exactly it came to her mind. The decision was sudden but she knew it had always been there forever. It simply thought now was the best time to present itself. She didn't even question it, it was so rational. She had been doing something for her old job, a distant and fuzzy memory now. One of the people sitting next to her had asked her a question about something and suddenly, there it was. Her whole life changed, she knew it. She had quietly excused herself and walked out the office. She didn't bother with a cab: she wasn't going home. 

Several hours later she had secured herself a large sum of money drawn from her savings and in the following days, by refinancing her apartment. She had later also sold her vehicle. Satisfied with the results, several hours later she had secured a very large boat. 

The owner was surprised by her insistence on obtaining it so quickly, but agreed to have it ready for her the next day. 

She didn't go home. For some reason, she knew that everything would go back to normal if she did, and the ramifications of her actions would be detrimental rather than extraordinary. In retrospect, she considered that others in his situation would have felt regret or sadness about leaving their family, but at the moment of execution all she remembered was a vague warm feeling. What she was doing was right. Undeniably so. The others would realize in time. 

She spent the night under an overpass, but the cold concrete didn't seem to phase her. She slept better than she had in years. Nine hours of blissful sleep, with not a single dream. A warm and complete unconsciousness.

Well rested, she had finished the nuances of the boat ownership and soon was unmooring the craft. As she did so, a small group of four people walked up to the boat. She didn't even recall what they looked like but remembered that they had stood on the edge of the gangplank and called for her attention. 

That prompted the Second Revelation. She was not alone in his quest. She welcomed the Others with more hospitality than she had shown in her entire life time. These were her people. The would be others, she knew. 

They set off during the night. She didn't recall ever learning how to operate a boat, but had convinced the previous owner that the craft was in good hands. She remembered easily gliding from place to place on the craft, attending to things she hadn't known existed a week earlier. It was easy. It was fun. The Others helped also. 

They took turns sleeping, and by the second day had made significant progress. In the days to follow they would make several stops to obtain food and gas as well as supplies for the Project. A winch, a generator, several yards of reinforced cable, fishing equipment, large batteries, a rather powerful computer and an incredibly accurate GPS. 

During the last two stops there had been Others there. Some had their own boats. They followed her.

The Group made its way eastward until they ran out of coast. They set off into the ocean.

She had checked the GPS continuously. By the fifth day the numbers had started to change randomly, but she knew the pattern, so everything was fine. 

Another Group met them on the tenth day, so they became a larger Group. She met with another Her but they were in total agreement. She would be the Her. The additional Her would be one of the Others.

And so it was that on the thirteenth day they arrived at the Location. She recalled being very satisfied, reassured that here, where the GPS coordinates bounced back and forth like so much noise, and where the ocean was an impossible fifty feet deep was the place for the Project. They had tethered the boats together and descended their anchors down to the seamount. Upon contact with the bottom, the Group felt an overwhelming feeling of accomplishment and satisfaction. Everything was right. Everything was going well. 

The Project started. The winch, the reinforced cable, the batteries, the computer, the generator and Her and the Others. "And that was how we came to be here", she finished saying to the Not Yet Believers. 

"Excuse me Maam!" cried one reporter amid the sea of Not Yet Believers. "Why are you here? What made all of you decide to come here?"

She looked puzzled at the man for a moment before remembering that not everyone shared the Group's glorious knowledge of the Project. 

"We are conducting a series of oceanographic studies on the sea floor. We believe that we might find something here worth studying". 
A calm blanketed voice softly restrained her from trying to explain the Project in more detail. They would not understand. Not yet. They were not part of the Group yet. 

A squabble of voices resumed after her explanation, a disharmonious blurble of wretched voices assaulting her ears. She had grown accustomed to the peacefulness of the Group. 

"How do you respond to allegations that you aren't really associated with Greenpeace? Their chapter head denies your membership!" a voice asked. 

"That’s nonsense." She said. "All of us share a deep commitment to the world. The earth means everything to the Gr..." she stuttered "...us."

Three Not Yet Believers descended off the helicopter. One was important. It had arrived from the military vessel stationed now near the Project. Perhaps earlier in the Project this would have been a major setback but now it was perfect timing. 

"That is all the time we have for questions but if anyone is interested as to our operations, we are more than happy to show you what we have accomplished."

The group of three with the one important Not Yet Believer from the helicopter joined the large group of interested reporters and proceeded to follow her down into the ship.        

She showed them the tanks of colorful fish, neglecting to mention that they were merely there for food. She showed them some of the more innocuous Pieces, which she attributed to a "shipwreck", and heard them puzzle over their strange shape and material. As they were leaving, one of them unfortunately touched a Piece and had to be taken away as he gurgled and spasmed. The Other was tactful about it however, as to not cause a disturbance. 

She showed them the winch, the reinforced cables, the batteries, the computer, the generator. They didn't understand. They murmured among themselves about "research" and "salvage" with equal amounts puzzlement and scorn. Except one. The important Not Yet Believer stared at her intently as if waiting for something. She realized that now was the time.

She had the Others usher the rest to far away parts of the ship and convinced the guards that had come from the helicopter that she "needed a moment alone with her husband".

She closed the door to the conference room and was satisfied with the small yet not inaudible click of the lock as she did so.

The man continued to stare at her with equal parts sadness and anger. "Aren't you going to say anything? You fucking leave all of a sudden like this? None of this makes any sense! You don't even like fish! You're not a Greenpeace member. You're an accountant for god sakes. What gotten into your head?!" 

She let the harsh words slide over her effortlessly and smiled. "This was very important to me."

"Important? You fucking left me and the kids. You didn't even call to tell me where you were... I thought that maybe..." Tears started to form in his eyes. "I was so worried" he cried. Sobbing, he uttered some uncharacteristically awful honking sounds and cleared his nose into a tissue. "I didn't even hear anything from you! Nothing!" He started again, full of anger. "The first I knew, you were on TV and they were saying something about this group and I..."

"I do regret not taking you with me" She said truthfully, interrupting him. "But I knew you wouldn't understand, and our Project is very important."

"Fuck your project. Of course I wouldn't understand. You had a great job which you apparently just left; a great car, which you apparently sold. And you LEFT US! I'm getting letters...Did you sell our house?!" He screamed at her. The sharp piercing banshee sound hurt her ears immensely but she smiled through the pain. "ARE YOU FUCKING SMILING?"

She had hoped it would have been easier than this. That he would have understood. But he did not. If he kept yelling like this, the guards would come back and things would become significantly more difficult.

Therefore, she acted quickly. Her feet moved swiftly across the blue carpet as she rounded the table. "What are you...?" he got to say before she cleanly silenced him. She slung the slumped unconscious body over her shoulder and brought him to the heart of the ship, where they had stored the majority of the Pieces. There was a chair there. For observation. Some of the larger Pieces vibrated or twisted within themselves, and it was a full time job to document their godlike movement.

She told the Others to stall the rest of the guests, or to prepare the ones who were ready to see the Pieces.
A bucket of water was unceremoniously dumped over the chair, which now held a restrained "husband". The man came to and instantly started screaming when he realized the situation so she had to throw a hand over his mouth. 

"I knew you wouldn't understand." She said, full of sadness. "So that was why I knew I had to Show you. Stop struggling. Look at what we have found...or rather what has found us!" She released her hand over his mouth and gestured up to the largest of the Pieces suspended with reinforced cable, held up by the winch.  

"My god. You're all fucking crazy." He said in a lower voice, trying to undo the chair binds.

"No, you're not looking!" She grabbed his head and forced it upwards towards the Piece. 

"What is so important about the..." he cut off mid sentence.

"Do you see?" She said apprehensively. "Do you understand?" She asked, stepping backwards, for the first time unsure and apprehensive. He would be the first
 if he was able. 

"What...How is it moving like that? Its like its shifting through itself." He said, awestruck and a bit fearful. 

"Yes, yes!" She cried, springing forward and ripping away the bindings."Look closer!" She urged him up out of the chair and half pushed half helped him to the edge of the railing.

"I...Wow, there's really something to it. Its so beautiful." 

Excitement was now bubbling up within her. He was going to understand. "Touch it." She encouraged. 

He reached out slowly and rested his hand on it. 

"Oh god" he said. "This is wonderful. I've never felt anything like this. I...I think you are really on to something here. Yes, I see."

"Do you understand now?" She asked, stepping backwards to admire it herself.

"Yes. I have never felt so sure of anything in my entire life. Everything makes so much sense now", he said, embracing her.

"Then you see why I had to leave? This changes everything. And we are so close. So close to finishing the Project." She said, pulling back slightly.

He smiled and took another look at the Piece. The Third Revelation. She understood now. He and Her together. Them. The Group. 

They nodded at one another. They could hear the Others all over the ship securing the Not Yet Believers. The helicopter and military ship would prove troublesome, but these were not Their concerns. The Group would find a way, guided by the Pieces.   

"We have to show everyone" They said to one another, smiling.






