Background
Apocalypse Now is a 153 minute long adaptation of Heart of Dark directed by Francis Ford Coppola. It follows Willard, an Army captain on his journey up a river to kill gone-native and former badass Kurtz. He is joined along the way by a bunch of people who all die. Spoilers. Also the two black guys totally die first.  

Strengths

Absurdity

Several scenes are just crazy. I suppose this is purposeful, trying to demonstrate the meaninglessness of the war, and perhaps the meaninglessness of all human endeavors. Not knowing anything about the war itself, I can only hope it wasn't as portrayed in the movie. A airborne commander who care more about surfing, even under indirect fire, than the job he's supposed to be doing. A stadium of playboy girls in the middle of the jungle, swamped by horny GIs. And of course, the main mystery of the movie, Kurtz, a highly decorated colonel, being targeted for assassination by his own side.

I think the backdrop of the war helps the absurdity: random explosion, senseless violence, the constant whir of helicopter blades and the engines of boats are all normal, a constant intrusion on the senses. 

One scene was particularly striking. About halfway into the movie, the group's boat comes across a Vietnamese junk. The helmsman of the boat believes its his duty to check the junk for arms. The other people of the group, manning massive weapons against the Vietnamese commoners, portray a health dose of racist induced brutality which soon turns to straight up murder when one of the Vietnamese runs for a container. Believing the container to be a bomb or other threat, they open fire and kill the entire Vietnamese contingent. However, upon closer inspection the container had a puppy in it! Aww, how cute <3

The juxtaposition of the bloody violence and the puppy is sublime, especially after the boat's crew try to wrest the puppy bodily from each other's clutches. The scene is finished however, by another act of violence. Upon finding one of the Vietnamese still alive, the helmsman wants to bring her to a hospital. Frustrated with the idea of a delay in his mission, the main character simply kills her.

It is especially interesting to note that the tone of this killing is instantly felt by all the others in the ship, souring the mood. This is ironic especially given that they just killed three other people with no qualms. As said earlier in the firm, does it pack any moral weight when assassins accuse other assassins of murder?

Cult Elements

The theme of moral corruption was a very engaging one for me, and I should probably read Heart of Darkness at some point. I'm reminded of some of the better Warhammer 40k novels (who perhaps drew from this) in its portrayal of chaos as something almost palpable that attacks you even as the enemy does. The similarity of adventures of a military cadre in unknown enemy territory, with screwed up intelligence, uncaring or non-present command, with the reader knowledgeable of the fact that everything is going to go to shit up and that the 'good' guys probably aren't going to 'win' certainly strikes a chord: one that sounds really, really good to my ears. 

The little hints of going-native are a great addition, from replacing some of their boat roof with indigenous materials, to Lance's facepaint and Willard's doubts as he reads the material on Kurtz. These hints build the tension surrounding the eventual confrontation with Kurtz, and while in my option, that actual confrontation was about as interesting and intellectually nourishing as a lukewarm pail of old piss, the cultist visual elements were pretty cool, from skulls, scalps, hacked limbs and fetid bodies, straight to lovingly stereotypical (and realistic I assume) ancient ruins splattered with blood, live animal sacrifice and bone decorations. 5/7 would strip of clothing and join in barbaric rituals.

Music

The score of the film is done well, with additions by the Doors, the Stones, and all the other bands you think of when you think Vietnam (except Jimmy Hendrix? I know there is a mention of him, but perhaps I missed the required playing of All Along the Watchtower?). In addition though, in playing with the otherworldliness of the whole endeavor, the film utilizes synth dream-like musical sequences, something between an actual song and a sound effect. These, added to stunningly curated visuals, especially spotlights directed straight at the camera, really hit home the crazy detached nature of the film.  

Mmmm, yes, give me more lights pointed directly at the camera.

Weaknesses

The Ending
I have not read Heart of Darkness. I don't know and don't care to compare how the movie differs from the book. I have also not seen Redux, the slightly longer and differently shot extended version of the movie. What I can say is that for some reason, the ending felt the like the weakest part of the movie. When we finally see Kurtz, he has descended into a cult-like messianic figure worshiped by the natives and what are left of his troops. He apparently spends his time sending psych 101 revelations over the radio, hacking the Vietcong to death and dying of malaria.

Fanfiction

However, despite some disconnected torture scenes, and the off handed killing of one of the last members of the party, Kurtz does almost nothing. There are perhaps one or two lines of dialog between him and the main character at the beginning of the end, but then the movie devolves into visually interesting, yet content devoid still shots of the main character looking exhausted.

Perhaps this was intended, to symbolize that the experience was so emotionally draining to Willard that he was left limping, both physically and mentally, back to the ship at the end of the movie. And maybe the departure from some of the more expected possible endings, like calling in an air strike on the place, taking Kurtz's place, killing himself etc would have been to formulaic. I imagine the ending was chosen purposefully, and all the actions part of some greater symbolism, but it just fell flat for me. I didn't get the message if there was one: I'm all for bucking convention and just letting the movie end, but you have to do it interestingly somehow.

To be a bit more snide, its as if the last fifth of the movie was replaced with the Mandarin from Iron Man 3 spouting his pseudo intellectual bullshit to a slightly constipated Frodo in one of his many look-painfully-and-wistfully-at-the-camera moments.

And what was up with that damn statue? I feel like theres some Janusesque duality of man thing going on there, especially with the shadowing, but it certainly wasn't clear enough for my puny brain to comprehend. 

Overall 

Apocalypse Now is a great four fifths of a spectacular movie and one fifth bore, powered by a healthy dose of military action shots above a malaise of existential absurdity. It threads the line pretty well between war movie and art-house intellectual morass, sometimes dipping one foot in one river and sometimes in another. 
