Yojimbo is an engaging action samurai film by the master of the genre, Akira Kurosawa.

Unfortunately for me, I didn't retain any of the names of the characters, so I will have to go by their descriptions.

The main character is a wandering fighter for hire, whose definitive characteristics are his wily nature, skill with the blade and somewhat hidden penchant ford doing good.

Upon encountering a village wracked by two warring clans, this ronin takes it upon himself to rid the town of both sides, allowing for the common folk to rebuild.

Strengths

Pacing 
Like all Kurosawa films, there is little time wasted. Scenes move well from one to another, the story unfolds in a somewhat chaotic game of intrigue, with the main character wheeling and dealing all to claw, sometimes literally, his way to the top.

Its superb cinematography can not doubt be picked apart under scholarly analysis to reveal genius, but simply watched by common viewer, Kurosawa's effort translates into incredibly watchable movie, especially taking into account that it was made in 1961.    

Seibei's wife 
Seibei is supposedly one of the clan leaders (had to look up the name), however, you wouldn't be able to tell it when his wife is in the shot. She calls all the shots, berates all the dithering of the males in the family and generally makes a pretty good villainess. 

Despite that fact that her motivation is simply greed and unrestricted ambition, and that her actions in the movie are inarguably evil, I couldn't help but to be impressed with the character, especially when compared to the other simpering women portrayed in the movie. Her fate is unfortunately not worthy such a character.

Main Character
The nameless wandering samurai is a paragon of chaotic good, his earnest desire to rid the town of strife combined with his masterful cunning and commensurate skill with the sword all combine into an incredibly likable character.

As he attempts to shape the situation to his own advantage, you desperately want him to succeed, empathizing both in his victories and his setback as he stares down swords and firearms alike with nary a concern. 

This character certainly resonated with others as well. This movie has spawned many adaptations, probably the most well known of which is the Clint Eastwood starring, Sergio Leone directed A Fistful of Dollars. 

It doesn't hurt that he's a total bad ass.

Weaknesses

Somewhat confusing secondary characters

Despite many of the secondary characters having very clearly defining characteristics, a simpleton, a giant, a sadist, an old man and so forth, there are at least ten other characters who are relevant to the plot. I simply could not tell the clan leaders apart at all, let alone remember anyone's name, although this did not have a huge effect on my enjoyment of the movie.

Overall 

A very entertaining action film, with solid action, characters and cinematography.










