Sorry for the delay, I was able to finish your novel today. And I have a lot of feedback (below and more detailed nitpick stuff attached)
In summary, I think the book was pretty good and can be even better through some minor restructuring.  

First thing I want to address is the purpose of the book. Because of the first person narrative, and inclusion of several very detailed and emotional plot elements regarding Nera, is the book also a self insert/journal reflection? If so, soften any criticism I give later, since it was from the view point of a commercial story. 

So, getting into it:
I think it was going for a kind of young adult, romance, intrigue urban-fantasy thing. I'll admit that the young adult genre is not my typical thing, and neither are romance stories, so take any criticism with that bias. Some of the parts I thought dragged may be of great interest to other readers.  

The main take away that I have is that although it had all the right elements, and although all of the plot points did in fact converge, it took them a *very* long time to do so. The first 2/3 of the book could be condensed significantly, and I think it would benefit if some of the more action elements + grandma visit were earlier in the novel.

Similarly, cathrine, who I initially wrote off as being just another character is actually very important, since she can interact with both the Keith-Nera romance, the Nera-Self Memory, and perhaps most importantly as the other side to the Fordian/Protector conflict. So she needs to be introduced earlier. How earlier? Maybe about 40 to 60 pages earlier. A good place would be right after youve established the Keith-Nera relationship and the Fordians-Nera relationships. Furthermore, I'd have her introduction be an concrete effect of Nera's own actions. Nera is very passive throughout most of the book, and having her find her friend would be a good way to address that. Perhaps had Cathrine have been captured by the life stealers, and have Nera and Keith free her.    

Some characters were unnecessary. I would give the advice that unless a character is going to play a large role in the story, I wouldn't even name them, and instead refer to them by their relationships, ie Stream's father, Mist's sister etc. There were too many Fordians, and they were not a crucial part of the story. Some of them actually got 'screen time', but that was even worse, since the time introducing them did not play out. Maybe they'll be more important in the next book. 

I felt like the motivations of the villians Melain and Ivy were especially one dimensionally evil with no real purpose. However, its easy to rationalize their behavior in a way that adds substance. Here are some suggestions:

	Melain, who has just consolidated control, is fearful of the other Life Stealer clans taking away his authority, this transitions to his authority as a man, which, get further in jeopardy when Nera, a woman and assumed underling, since he turned her, messes with his plans and humiliates him in front of his underlings. Similar to how a parent would be embarrassed if their child disrespected their authority in front of others. As Nera again eludes his grasp, he irrationally hyperfixates on her as the cause of his political and masculine problems. This would explain the whole masculine aggressiveness towards Nera. 

	Ivy has a greater emotional connection to the wildlife than Vine, who mostly just gets the cool control plants ability. Thus, when the humans poison the land it literally hurts her. Concerned about her people, the land and her own physical and mental wellbeing, she tries to convince the council to take action. Unsurprisingly, like with Melain, they are disinclined to do so. Feeling betrayed, she sides with the life stealers.  

The ending was good. Very good. In fact probably the best part of the book. I went through those 50 pages in less than an hour. 

I did feel a bit cheated that the ending didn't really resolve the Ivy conflict. But hey, thats where the other books come in I guess. 
Thanks for sending it over!

Brendan
