The plains stretch for what seem like forever; and although forever might not have a end, it certainly has a center. Here, in this part of the world, that center is Makarska. Let me tell you of the forbidden city in the clouds since that is the only thing you foreigners want to hear about.

It rises massive above the surrounding lands, the tallest objects for hundreds if not thousands of miles. The plateau itself rises a mile into the sky and its peaks are commonly hidden by haze. But when the hot dry wind turns, you can just make out its unobtainable splendor: Buildings like spires made of white marble, gold domes and crystal surfaces shining forcibly down on anyone who approaches it. 

There are many stories of the spire city, but of course none of them can ever be verified, the giants don't let any ships up and there is no physical way to scale the sides, not that anyone has ever been mad enough to try. Every decade or so there is a sky captain who tries to breach its mysteries, driven perhaps by greed or perhaps simply by curiosity. The last one made it almost half of the way before it was blasted out of the sky. 

The smart ones stick to Koprivina. That is the city for people like you and I. It lies almost a fourth of the way up the plateau, on a outcropping, a perfect place for the ships to moor. Yes, if there was ever a reason to travel through these lands, you'd be wanting to go to Koprivina. Its a mixing bowl of sorts, mercenaries from the north, plainsmen from the west and east, sometimes delegations from the immortal circle. Everyone who wants to go through the plains has to stop at Koprivina.

The land around the city is the most fertile you'll get around these parts and the further you go in basically any direction, the worse it gets. The plainsmen can put up with it for a while, and make their living traveling with the herds, moving from waterhole to waterhole. 

But go out to far, and the water goes bad, the land grows dry and brittle, and collapses from even beneath your feet into horrid gaps. Those are the wastelands, disgusting and twisted. Sulfur and rancid steam rises from the ground itself and no living thing can survive there for long. Some say that its the leftovers of some forgotten war, but its been so long that it doesn't really matter.

Of course the immortal circle have their enclaves, somewhere in the wastes they have figured out a way to live under the ground there, but everyone agrees its an unnatural existence sustained by whatever terrible rituals they have come up with over the centuries, and one just has to look at their slaves and their terrified and terrifying mercenaries to know that it is a place you do not want to frequent. 

Further north you can get to more decent lands, but it takes a long long time, and of course the journey can't be done on foot. 

People smarter than I have told me that its been decades since the barriers have come down, but its made little change here in the plains. Well, if anything, the plains breeds tough bastards; you have to be to survive out here. I'm sure that the younger plainsmen and adventurous cityfolk will get restless. Perhaps there are better places past the old dividing lines. We will have to see.   