You asked me of the events on the mainland. I will tell you why I am here. Unfortunately it has some length to it, but I think you'll understand more if you would care to listen. 

I wasn't always this horrifying deathly specter that you see here. I was once a simple minotaur farmer from the land to the far east. 

My group of traveling companions and I traveled the great continents, lusting for gold, searching for adventure. And before to long, it had found us. Yet perhaps more so that we would have wished. It was too much for a simple minotaur, both my body and former greed were lost to a new purpose. I saw the untold suffering of those around me and realized that I must swear to counterbalance it.  

We lost a companion when we battled with the Giants, deep in the heart of the skykeep as it came crashing down around us. So few walked free of that fall. 

It seems that the whole world lies teetering on its edge, balanced precariously above an inevitable carnage of war. The long silent enemies have returned, and once again Giants and Dragons threaten to destroy the peace we once knew. 

I've come here as an emissary. To try to stop this seemingly inevitable violence in any way I can. 

I will not keep the truth from you any longer. 

It was my intention to work towards diplomatic reconciliation between you and the mainlanders. However, it was only moments into the negotiations when the dwarf in command betrayed me. Some kind of evil must have grabbed his mind. He accused the high feathers of killing the hostages and the two sides broke out into fighting. Through his actions many now lie dead, including the high priest of the wind and the high feathers. He is to face his crimes. I believe they will execute him not soon after we return. I would do the deed myself. However, in order to prove his madness we needed to refute his claims, which is why I came here. The freed hostage proves his duplicity.

Which leaves you and I.

The high feathers are dead. Nothing will change that. What can change is what you do next. It seems your actions so far may have been forced. If that is the case, the results, the blame, lie at the hands of those who forced you. Let justice be directed at the proper direction. The squabbles of us petty races does nothing but stain the air and ground with blood, while the true villains, the giants, live on. I am here to help you exact *that* justice.