To Ruslan Adamovych Novak, High Counselor of Arkastroza.

It is with grave news, that we write to you of a catastrophe of epic proportions: the destruction of the skykeep, which has been brought to the ground in ruins. It is only proper that an explanation accompany such a violent and monumental act. 

For centuries before the walls fell and even after the war of the Alliances, one simple rule has governed Idrasia. The proclamations of the giants have provided the lesser races with iron rule of law, sometimes regarded as harsh, but undoubtedly stable and serving Order. 

With the most recent actions of the Markarskans however, I regret to inform that this has changed. It has become clear, for reasons known only to them, that cruelty and ruthlessness has replaced order and justice. The land has become imbalanced with the predations of their shock teams, the slaughter of their soldiers. This series of attacks extends further than the expected police actions appropriate with that of rebelling provinces. It has descended into a frenzy of blood and violence, with no check, and no thought to stability.  

It is Right and Correct in the Order that one provide ones liege or protector with supplies and remuneration. However, even if one accepts their tithes, which have long since extended past reasonable and have become transactions of extortion surpassing all reason, even if one regards their actions regarding their enslavement of thousands of workers to send to the mines as just demands, one could still not justify the complete destruction of dulbrovnin, along with its many acreage and trees-amid-the-desert as serving Order. 

Something has happened. Something has changed within the heart of Makarska, hidden among the clouds, secrecy and magic of that spire, something which now compels its servants to serve not Order, but Chaos. It turns the hand of justice to that of cruelty. That of paternalism to violence. It is a perversion. 

Therefore, in seeking to rebalance that current events, the people of the adisan collective, along with a number of brave adventurers took it upon themselves to end this injustice. And now a skykeep has fallen, not due to weakness among the Markarskans, but due to the purity of cause with which the adisans have fought them. It is that of Justice, Order and Righteousness. There can be no other truths of this blasted reach. 

To consider the legal implications and justifications of our actions, I have attached a thirty four page addendum citing the Ordning Law of National Interaction which as always, serves as a guide through these troubling times. 

I ask of you, who has always been a stable and reliable source of legal knowledge, what actions the Arkastrozans shall consider at this time. I, as always, counsel for the fair rule of law: Markarska’s position is an illegal one and it is now a time of restitution. 

Your faithful,
Serge Kahoost
