The vargas were once a family that controlled a barony under one of the smaller local lords. Legend has it that Adolphus Varga, Lukas's grandfather did something wrong which, they say, cursed the family. They fell out of favor with their lord, and had much of their lands confiscated.

Reduced in status, but not impoverished, Lukas's father, Samuel, moved to a trading city and tried to become a merchant among the islands. It was there that he met his wife, the reserved and beautiful Samara. They never spoke much of their meeting. 

Unfortunately, the curse seems hereditary. Despite initial gains, competitors drove him out of business and slandered his name among the townspeople. Humiliated, Samuel tried to move the family out to a small fishing village with the last of his boats. 

This was too much for Samara, who was used to much higher status in life. She left and took Lukas's older brother and sister, Gregory and Heather. Lukas has never seen them again.

The first years of Lukas's life were spent learning how to fish with his father, and tilling their small craft amid the rock and cold waters of their home islands.

Even this too came to an end. Some enemy naval force, or pirates, captured his father when Lukas was ill at home. 

Lukas at first swore to find his father, and set off in their boat. Fate was not done with him. He was picked up by (other) pirates. Given his young age, yet impressed with his tenacity, they accepted him into their crew.

He sailed with them to many places, becoming a proficient sailor. Although he did not mind the sea or the pirates he had fallen in with, their violent nature scared him; after all, people like them were responsible for the disappearance of his father. This became particularly problematic when the captain decided he was old enough to accompany them on inland raids, where he was expected to do his fair share of killing. Which he did. 

After a particularly reprehensible sacking of a town, the boat was caught in a storm. In the darkest part of the squall, he swore that if he survived he would try to become a better man. The ship made it through and, disgusted with his life, and his actions, departed from the crew on negative but not murderous terms. His life was his own again.

Instincts:
When I hear Jibe Ho! I duck.
?
?


Beliefs:
I must atone for my actions as a pirate and become a better man
My father is out there somewhere, and I need to find him!
?





