In its infinite wisdom, Ulimahtor the Ultimate created the world and in it, created humans, capable of both acts of great evil and great goodness, of justice and tyranny. Satisfied with its work, Ulimahtor embodied both sides of humanity in two great scions, Xapham, the scion of law and structure, and Bezulthian, the scion of chaos. Between these two, humanity lived, building cities, tending farms, sailing ships, multiplying and living in both the light and the dark. And Ulimahtor slipped back into the nothingness from which it came, its job done.

And so the world was for millenia.

But as the flow of Ulimahtor passed, there was born a Woman of great power and personal charisma who christened herself Aengelios. Convinced that the world was flawed, she gathered to her an amount of like minded people, skilled and strong.

Together, they purged what they considered to be heresy from the world. No longer would there be both light and darkness. There would only be the beautiful and pure holiness, form over formlessness, law over lawlessness, obedience over radical thinking. And after several long years of strife, they were successful. The chaotic web of petty kingdoms were united into one great nation, the Beneficence of Totality, with Aengelios and her generals assuming the role of the Voices of the Beneficence. Ageless and incorruptible, they mediated the progression of human society from their capital, Elysium the Pure.     

In this form, humanity flourished, in a way. Unquestionable adherence to Xapham, and the holiness of his light was required. Bit by bit, Aengelios rid of the world the evil that she saw in humanity, the seven deadly sins she enumerated, Lust, Envy, Greed, Wrath, Sloth, Pride and Gluttony she expunged from the populace, replacing them instead with the seven virtues, Chastity, Selflessness, Liberality, Patience, Diligence and Humility.

Bezulthain, dismayed by this turn of events, arranged a meeting with Aengelios in the Fields of the Ancients. The two could not come to terms, each assured that their concept of humanity was dominant over the other. Aengelios, seeing her opportunity, called on the strength of her generals, the cult that followed her and finally Xapham. Overflowing with holy power, she smote Bezulthian into the ground, trapping the scion beneath the rocks of the earth, imprisoned forever. 

With Bezulthian's influence gone, Man became content, ruled over by their benevolent immortals. The flow of Ulimahtor progressed, and again, everything was good.

A hundred years passed the purge, and Bezulthian, observing the wrongness of the world Aengelios had created could not ignore his duty any longer. Pouring all his strength into one act, he pierced the prison he had been trapped inside and appeared in Elysium itself. This time there would be no talk or terms. It approached Aengelios as an old man, the now ancient but still ageless paladin on her throne. 

She arose, laughing at his withered and broken guise. "I am impressed by your perseverance, vile thing, but what can you do now that you could not have done a hundred years ago?"

The old man shook its head, and extended an arm as she rose to grab her holy sword. "You who have the world, I have several gifts for you, things even you do not have."

And Aengelios paused. "What gifts are these?" She asked, having grown used to the daily tribute of those under her.

"Behold. The things you do not have which you now posses."

"Age."

And Aengelios's body creaked and her former beautiful visage withered to resemble Bezulthian's own. Her back bowed and her physical strength deserted her, the holy sword clattering to the floor.

"Fear."

And Aengelios trembled as she realized she could no longer live forever. The unknown of vanishing into Ultimahtor's nothingness struck her, and she stumbled.

"Perspective."

And Aengelios, now on her knees, cried out, seeing how her own actions had been counter to Ultimahtor's wishes, and how, in her quest to rid the world of evil, she had also squashed innovation, freedom of action, freedom of thought and creativity. 

"Bezulthian. I see now that I was wrong! I have strayed from the path which I thought was the light! Xapham forgive me!"

But the figure shook its head. "It is not Xapham's forgiveness that you require but mine. Through inaction on its part, and its gift of strength to you, Xapham has contributed to this error."

And Aengelios wept, realizing that light could not live without darkness and that in Ultimahtor's Infiniteness, the two were one.

"Tell me what I must do to right this!" She said, her now frail body shaking with determination.

"Do not worry. I have a solution to this problem; one final gift that will right your wrong." The old man said.

"Yes! Please! I am forever in your debt! I accept! What is your gift?" She asked, reaching towards the robed figure.

"Death."

And she paused, eyes widening. And her spirit left her, the ancient body it has once inhabited falling to the floor in seemingly peaceful slumber, a smile frozen on its face.

But Bezulthain had, after years of imprisonment used the last of its power, and could not intervene further. The figure collapsed as well, leaving no trace of its existence.

It is now a further hundred years after this encounter, and Aengelios's hand can still be felt upon the land. Her great and still immortal generals live on, attempting to continue her oath of lawfulness. But more and more, they find a power counter to their own, a subtle undercurrent of change in their previously perfect static world. Bezulthian stirs again, its influence leaching out into the world. 

Desperate to counter this seeming perverse touch of chaos, as the populace begins trading with gold in mind instead of good, of doubting the holy scriptures, of seeking the pleasure of flesh, of daring to wonder whether they would not be better off with a more liberal governance, the generals created the Inquisition. This organization yields complete and dictatorial power over wherever they appear. With an iron fist and complete and utter belief in their goals, they enforce the law of Xapham. 

Little do they realize that their zeal, and courage to confront what they believe is heresy in fact contributes to the fear and chaos Bezulthian needs. 

It is one hundred years after Aengelios's death and two hundred years from the purge. At long last Bezulthian stirs again. He seeks a champion, one to counter Aengelios's meddling, someone to confront the Inquisition and bring spontaneity, human urges and freedom back to humanity. Bezulthain lives!
