#Overview

In the Mouth of madness is a lovecraftian horror movie by John Carpenter about a insurance agent who goes in search of a missing author whose books seem to unnaturally disturb his readers. Along with the author's female editor, the two find a supposedly fictional town  in which all of the author's books take place. The 4th wall is increasingly broken as the main character realizes that not only that the supernatural things he sees are real but that he seems to be in a horror book himself.

#Strengths 

###The concept
It watches like the love child of a Stephen King and Lovecraft short story, and my god, does it suit both. What makes it great is that its not only a homage to many other horror pieces, it acknowledges it within the own movie. We learn, spoilers, that the whole universe depicted within the movie is merely the writings of a horror author. It makes the somewhat trope ridden elements of the story, creepy children, cursed town/church, unreliable narrator, etc. all the more palatable. What would have been a fun campy horror movie becomes a slightly better meta campy horror movie. 

Interestingly enough though, this kind of horror synthesis, the idea that everything portrayed in horror is real in a kind of horror multiverse story, is in and of itself common idea. Even the twist that the main character is in fact, a character sees much use. Stephen king explores similar ideas through not one, not two, but three short stories: The Dark Half, Word Processor of the Gods and Secret Window-Secret Garden. Cabin in the Woods explores the multiverse concept as well, although there are doubtless other examples that I can't think of right now.

However, one thing that I believe is important about this horror amalgamation is that the prime examples of it usually portray the concept seriously within the movie. These inspired films and books, from Super 8 to the totally amazing Stranger Things all read and watch as homages, each approaching the idea from a slightly different direction, rather than imitations. In the Mouth of Madness is no exception.

###The intro and Ending Music
Apparently scored by the directer, John Carpenter, wikipedia sites the "bland" rock music as one of the film's disadvantages. I completely and utterly disagree. Not only did I find it 'totally tubular' and era setting (watching the movie from the relatively safe vantage point of 2016), it also could have been an homage to the intro in Heavy Metal, a film completely different in tone and artistic style, but which shares some similar concepts. 

#Weaknesses

###The special effects
I will be honest, the movie has not aged well. The monsters, when shown, look fake and plastic, the few uses of effects look as dated as that one plane landing scene from Kill Bill. In the reoccurring urban scene, the fog looks like something out of 1989 Batman.

However, some of the more slimy effects seemed a bit better. The blood looked real enough for suspension of disbelief and the practical effect inhale/exhale of the corrupted door in the church was pretty good in my opinion. 

###Its a Bit Cheesy
Despite, and perhaps because the film takes its subject matter seriously, when confronted with the old special effects and horror tropes, you might find your self smiling to yourself, more than cringing in horror.

###How some of the characters are written
The main character is written well enough, as are the crazies and the book publisher, but the Author was written more hammy than evil and the doctor in the asylum was just confusing and probably should have been stricken from the script all together. 

However, the most egregious writing was definitely the tsundere characterization of the female protagonist. She starts off as a definitely competent editor, peeved at the main character's machismo and ends up as a overtly sexualized, old-god infected seductress. To be clear, it seems that the flaw was in the writing rather than in the actor, as I found her possessed-by-evil-entities-seductress impression to be way more convincing than the one in Ghostbusters, the closest analog. However, the fact that this was the best they could write the character was somewhat insulting. 

###That Whole Subjective Reality Crap
As the movie nears the end, it is clear that the whole world is about to be overtaken by evil forces. The conflict comes when one tries to understand the explanation for this supernatural el mundo smackdown. Part of the movie argues that the whole premise is about belief, reality is in the eye of the beholder and so forth, and that since more people believe in the horror novel world of the Author than reality (and even than the bible!!!!! OMG), that reality is changing to be horror. 

However, the movie also introduces the idea that everything is preordained and written by the author. In that case, what people think is meaningless, the author is an evil god tormenting his creations: their beliefs be damned. 

Not only do these two concepts seem irreconcilable, all the dialog about the Subjective Reality Hypothesis of Evil is just trite.   

#Overall
A good homage to Stephen King with elements of Lovecraft, I would recommend this movie to horror aficionados or writers or to anyone who likes a solid, cheesy horror movie. Plus, its pretty much one of the only Lovecraftian movies to grace the big screens. 



