DRAMATIS PERSONAE
Germain Lemarr - Northern Spellblade of god of strength
	Rose - Germain's wife.
Aster La Rouche - Ran away when 16, adventured until 22, 24 died. Hazel eyes, long sandy hair sometimes cut short.
Enton Haverson (32 soldier assasin,35 adventurer,met aster 47, left her 53, 55 she died)- Background in war, meeting with Aster, briefly touched on master. 
Greyson Ohare-Northern Miner
Elban Highfort-Southern Miner
Alexander Pluzinerrorick-Shani associated Mercenary and adventurer
Josep 'Spiker' Barr-Close combat specialist from the South, racist
Samuel Vernier-Scout from West Field 
Thompson Black- Former Southern Battlemage. Strange.

Elder Bran- Elder in fort erengar after Remi and Palo's father passed away.
Palo - older brother, fighter, died after an adventure to the natives.
Remi - younger of the two brothers, archer, mother died giving birth to him.Turned to revenge after Palo died after adventure
Tzuras - Naturalist, druid but with the approach of a wizard, unknown but is a fledgling spirit talker. An alchemist and wanderer. Not many combat spells.
Hamarako - Surprisingly well read wilderman cheifton and spirit shaman. Very violent but in a bond villian sort of way.

Meridia- A First sargent. A former love interest of Haverson's. She turned down his proposal before the horrible defeat. She turned to religion and feats of arms after the defeat. 

Laurent Carver - spymaster of the north. Works alongside Durand and has done so for 5 years. A competent and joking but reclusive individual. 
	Miss Menchel-Old lady shop keeper, friend of Laurent's
	Magda Carver-Aunt who co owns a inn/tavern, the Guardsman along with her husband
	Lucious Carver- Uncle
	Lieutenant Merrill- Durand's fake name.
	Paschal - Laurent's Fake name.

North:
Army of about 25000
United Codex - Lawbook written by Atheneus
Army hierarchy:
SC->Commander (Division) x5-> Colonel (Battalion) x5-> Lieutenant (Company) x5-> Sargent (Squad) x10-> men x20
Guard hierarchy (Civil service):
Marshall(5)->Potentate(4)->Sheriff(3)->Alder(2)->Men(1) (lapels)

Supreme Commander Durand
(Previous) Supreme Commander Richer - Dead, possibly killed by southern spies.
(First) Supreme Commander Raimund Atheneus "The Immortal" - Founded the North. Wrote the United Codex.
Secretary Laurent Carver
Commander Otker Bleomedes (M) - Old. Commander of the First, former adventurer.
Commander Leodulf Hildanus (M) - Commander of the Second, possible spy
Commander Adala Ruodhard (F) - Commander of the Third, incredibly ambitious possibly being blackmailed.
Marshall "Coldstone" Evereldis of Dor - (F) Highest Guardsman, in charge of internal affairs (but not spying)
Dageric Hale (M) - Old. Leader of the military engineers, a siege expert.
	Arbogast Harberg (M) - A military mage with a background in mining.
Rathar Cuebonh (M) - Somewhat old. Both the High Scrivenor (head of university) and the Civil Potentate of Illithar.
Marellus Pacatian - Civil Potentate of Swan, on the surface, a competant civil survant, in actuality, a slimy git.
	Notger ??? - Fisherman's guild head. Old scruffy and wants no part of the North. Tried to convince Marellus to actively break policy. 

Random People:
Herleva Cardis-lieutenant 
Alhild - Agent

Quentin- 50s Map maker and elven affiliate, possibly a wizard. Unhappy at the northern military for using his maps to plan fortifications and attack on the enemy.
Thella- 14 Young outspoken apprentice, has the ability to view history.

Malick-Leader of a unfortunate band of bandits
Lothar-Hedge Wizard
Ebwolf- Bandit who disagrees with Malick's leadership
Reginar- Another bandit who also diagrees with Malick, but not as much as Ebwolf.

Lubber- A donkey used by Haverson and Mathis.

Otton Nordbert 32 - A former Shani soldier who was part of The First. He found Ingela as he wandered the landscape and decided to join her. he is now a devoted scholar and elf-god monk. 
Bavo Arbogast 50- A powerful half-elf mage who tried to teleport himself into the fell with horrible consequences. He lost both his power and his mind.
Ingela Vuinetegard 35 - A former priest of Geremon who strayed from his teachings when she learned about the fell. She found Otton and took residence 
Sabatok / Kahbsobis 50 ish - Two 'young' elves who guard the Suture Queen.  


South:
Lord Gerrant
	Lucard Gerrant - Ice Mage, first son, devious 
	Serge Gerrant - Fire Spellsword, sometimes gets along with brother
	Ellis Gerrant - Mage in training, quiet and reclusive, bullied by brothers 
High Councelor Corlenos
Callum Green - Ousted former Duke. Tried and dissapeared for necromancy.
Reginald Tambyln
Isreal Harper - Master duelist. Has gone up against Meridia and won at least three times, tied once. Think old formal british person. Dislikes politics, but at one point was a duke himself.
Teveral II - Southerner King
Ayden ??? - dead leader of a triumverate that Durand killed.

Far North:
Jarl Sigfast Ingisson "The Wise"

Haverson's Past:
Turpin, Barrande, Celine, Yves, Elaine, Lydia - A family that nursed Haverson back to health after the incident. 
Sister Mara - An old local priestess of Geremon.
Uriah Morin- sadist spy/assasin for the south. Was trying to gain access to spy ring and wounded Haverson. Hated by Declan.
Declan- spy/assasin for the south that helped Haverson. Hated and eventually killed by Uriah.

Haverson's mother died in childbirth with his brother
Haverson has a brother who has a family with several children. He is a farmer in the North between Dor's crag and the capital.
Haverson abandoned his birthright for adventuring, giving it to his brother. 

Important Families:
Partiarch La Rouche - Dor's Crag merchant family (see Aster La Rouche)
	Mathis La Rouche (M) 60 - Patriarch 
	Sebisi - First, elven wife. 
	Ansalom-Butler
	Aster La Rouche-Daughter, perhaps to a different wife
	Felix La Rouche (M) 21-Son
	Alain La Rouche (M) 18-Son
	Ethalia La Rouche (F) 45 - Wife
	Vulris Marteband- (M) 50 - Doctor lives a few houses away.

Patriarch Childebert - Dor's Crag merchant family
	Roald Childebert - Recently passed patriarch
	Arktor Childebert (about 30) - New Patriarch
Gerrant - Duke of Crireton Bode

Places Mentioned:
-Crireton Bode (Duke Gerrant's seat of power)
	Blackwall- Former seat of power.
-Northern Capital 
-Sourthern Capital
-Westfield
-Dor's Crag
	-Allegoth Basin
-Lost city of Adze
-Wild men of Adze
-The Silent Library
-Wildermark (new merchant established town south of Dor's Crag)
-Mellont
-The Spires, a area of tall granite spires in the middle of the river. Earth magic/spririts? caused by Dor vs ??? fragment of void? There is a prescencse inside it which sometimes sucks in boats. Lures them in. Mist that is warm then goes icy cold. 
-Merrin's Ford. Town splayed across the river and where it can be crossed by bridge. In teh center of the river is a muddy island. The town is a merchant and theif haven. Sprall and dirty. Several alchemists.
-The University
-The Fell (former elven capitol)
-Ice spire at the pole amid a ocean of constantly shifting ice spikes
-Wave king's Gap
-The Old Elven hilly central area to continent
-St. Thomas's hill
-Lowlands (place between north and south)
-Fort Erengar

Peoples Mentioned:
Fartherners -> barbarians from the far north
Northerners
Southerners
Dwarves -> Uzerai
Elves
Gnomes-> Shan + windress (sailor witch)
Wildermen-> disperate natives that have settled east of fort Erengar
	Whenua - A particular violent version of wildermen who worship Uzerai
	Whenua-Ki - A spirit shaman

Gods Mentioned
Earth God-> Main earth spirit (Uzerai?)
Geremon of the infinite repose - good death god, new god
Kerack - God of strength, war and strife
Ishira/Aumnum-Ra/Suture Queen - God of Elves
Lady of Secrets, the mysterious one
Sea King / Lord of the Waves - God of the Shani
Plotweaver / Prince of Shadows - God of deceit, new god
Pluor, Lord of Opulence - Dead at least a hundred years ago, following the breakup of the first human kingdom.
Searcher - one of the original unmaddened gods, who was cast out by Kerack. Cursed to walk the land looking for something that he doesn't know. Haverson has met him before. Is immortal but can be killed. Married an elf once and had unknown number of children to her. 

Random things mentioned:
Sea stone - blue gem, stand in for sapphire except affiliated with Ocean god.
Strings - Ensnaring objects, people and plots, attempting to affiliate mortals with a certain god
Lord Gerrant's War (10 years ago) - three years long, initially successful, up to north capital, pushed back by diverting to westfield. Stalemated despite casualities.
The First - A group of adventurer soldiers, an elite squad of the Northern military 
The Illith - the main bastion in Illithar
Parallels - Nice part of Illithar
Weather Stop- Barometer
Nature Walkers- Druids
The Sun in this world rises in the north and sets in the south. At times it reverses.

Poisons:
Last Gasp - applicant, choke to death 
Reaper's Fell - applicant, paralyize.
Kerack's Test - applicant,

Trees:
Mellowcore- A medium height tree with soft yellow wood. Its leaves and bark make a soothing tea when steeped. Think large apple tree. Regular Heart leaves
Plunsetto- Short tree that never grows larger than a sapling. Has interesting dark wood that can be used as a dye. Waxy Spear leaves.
Agron/Speartips- Basically a pine tree. Tall and evergreen, easy to remove bark, sticky sap in the spring. Needles and cones.
Kander- Basically a large oak tree. Elves liked this tree. No real medicinal properties but produces acorns and can be used for woodworking.
Purglove- A common undergrowth plant. Fur like spines. It produces small inedible purple berries. Fuzzy heart shaped leaves. Think rasberry bush.
Tanglestep- A common undergrowth vine. Likes warmer weather but will tolerate the cold. Verdant green. Completely useless. Waxy small clusters of spear leaves.


Unmentioned:

LORE:
Somewhere between one and two thousand years  ago (so not actually that long) an advanced civilization realized a collision between their galaxy and another was going to happen. Normally such an event wouldn't effect many things, but they predicted that their entire solar system would collide with another larger red giant. In order to preserve their civilization against the oncoming fall, some of their brightest minds combined and came up with the plans for a incredibly powerful device capable of warping reality itself at a subatomic level. Combined with this device was an incredibly powerful AI capable of transferring arbitrary requests and wishes into reality.

This device and the scientist who had made it intended to use the device to set up a new world and reform their fractured civilization. They had prepared for this eventuallity and had planned to use an experiemental jump drive to transport them to a habitable planet they had found. However, their calculations were interrupted as the galaxies collided, and by concidense, during their jump, the collision shot them off course and into the gravity well of another planet. 

The planet (Svotera? Enya? Eynia?) turned out to be close to uninhabitable. It was a caustic hellhole of active volcanoes and deadly gas. The surface was rife with lava and blasted raw rock. 

They therefore decided to try to use the world engine to terraform this planet into one that they could live on, even though doing such a complicated maneuver was something none of them had tried. 

The operation was mostly a success. However, what they didn't know was that the planet that they had assumed was uninhabited was in fact the home of a interesting silicoln based bacteria species, which lived off the chemical vents of the planet.

Fascinated with their success, the vast majority of the scientists went down to the terraformed planet. However, a select cadre were selected to remain on the station to keep everything up to shape and to help the colonists, especially through the use of the engine.

However, these chosen few disagreed on a course of action and over time, came to resent the ones who got to go to the surface, and desired power for themselves. One of them planned on immersing himself in the world engine and at some level, integrating his intellegence in with the AI running it. 

The others, horrified and perhaps also jealous, joined. What they didn't realize was that such a melding was completely unstable. Their minds were ripped form their bodies and lost in the vastness of the capabilities of the AI and the world engine. 

The Transformation
However, with it under their control, they transformed the planet into their version of what *they* wanted, to make themselves gods. Before the colonists on the planet realized what they had done, it was too late, and most of them were killed.

This transformation was much more pervasive than even the instigators realized, and not even they were untouched by its affects. Technically, it involved reprogramming part of the AI's internal code towards wanting to basically make a fantasy world. The tome, the people who would become gods, the colonists, even the land itself and the space around the planet would be affected by this transformation.

One of the main things the transformation did was to make a sun sphere for the world. This sun is not actually all that large and revolves around the planet rather than vice versa. The transformation also made several moons. 

One of the few who remained on the station did not meld with the world engine. She would become the Lady of Secrets, influencing things subtly from her place on the station while trying to keep her companions alive. One of her most important acts was to send the instruction manual for the world engine to the planet. 

Tome of Infinite Knowledge-
The tome is a instruction manual for the world engine. No one remembers its original form for not even it survived the transformation unchanged. It now resembles a massive book. Its actual shape, form, size, all vary. However it always has the following properties:
-It is invincible. It is immune to all mundane physical damage. Dirt and other things that would normally ruin books simply slides right off it. Incredible physical or magical damage can cause it to temporarily rupture, but it will reform eventually.
-It has the ability to be understood by any intellegence but only after long periods of study. "Reading" the book in this manner is incredibly hard and of a considerable mental effort. Most who encounter the book simply see a jumble of symbols which fit no language they have ever seen. It typically takes a year of study to read a full page. Once a person reads the book they understand some about the function of the world engine, but in a intuitive rather than studied way. Therefore the book may been read without the reader knowing what it truely is. 
-The book is not really a book. Being under the effect of the world engine, the tome has to take real physical form. However, it is of the engine itself and represents its core functions.
-The book has an infinite number of pages. However, a person who has read a page from the book may split the book into smaller sections. Because this can be done an infinite amount of times, a sizable number ~20 sections of the book have been made, usually being books of renown in and of themselves.
-The book doesn't always look like itself. If a page or pages are lifted form the original, they can take the form of another book, or be combined with any mundane book, enhancing it to magical status, with most of the properties described above. 
-At present, there are fragments in the following locations: 
	-(10)The tome of the waves in the Shani church.
	-(20)The Northern United codex
	-(10)The crown of the mad shani prince (not in book form!)
	-(40+30)The necromancer
	-(20)Partially disolved bits in Uzerai
	-(20)Partially dissolved bits in the north spire
	-(10*Number of scrolls)The scrolls of Ishira
	-(10)Tome of mechanics
	-(2) Tome in the mage's tower in the south
	-(5) Tome in the university in the north
	-(50) Somewhere (perhaps in multiple locations) in the Endless Repository
	-(1) Mad Elf Captain vine
	-(1) Eaten by the wilder godlet
	-(10) Scattered in the field of totems 

Uzerai-The transformation affected the planet in many ways. It was a former volcanic hellscape, at least for its colonizers. However, what the colonists did not know, is that it in fact was habited. On its surface, living off the chemical plumes of the less hostile sulfur zones was a collection of silicoln based single celled organisms. These organisms formed large matte like colonies and spires that were unfortunately very simmilarly looking to the plume funnels they congregated around.They had actually undergone a bit of evolution and the colony could react to external threats using a sluggish but effective system of chemical signals.

When the transformation happened, the world engine struggled to incorporate such an alien collection of organisms into the world it was attempting to build. The end result was Uzerai. The Uzerai are humanoid elementals which typically dwell in places of extreme heat. In keeping with their chemical signalling mechanism, they together form a planet spanning physic gestalt intellegence. This intellegence, also called Uzerai, is recently conscious and self aware, but in a constant state of horror and incomprehension at the world which, to its eyes, has been transformed into a hostile hellscape. Consciousness to it is a nauseating and neverending hell from which it desperately wishes to be delivered but lacks the understanding to free itself.

Uzerai together is essentially an alien god and affects on the world commensurate with that power, but operates very slowly. It neither understands nor cares for the lives of the people on the surface and wishes the world to return to its prior condition and for it to return to its unconscious state.     


God of knowledge
Nemenor (Name lost)- One a druid who lived in the Far North, this person has recently 'reformed'/ found his place back in the Endless Repository. The Endless Repository is a region of warped space created by the world drive after someone used the  


Cerras (Gabriel) - Demi god wizard
Demetrion (Mortarion) - Demi god cleric
Marthih Layre - The Mad king of the Shani

Play Rules:
Shani Saltfolk- 
The Shani all have a love of the ocean, whether they are traders, fisherman, or pirates. They do not stray far from the ocean and prefer salt water over fresh water. Although they are aspected to the Wave King, most are dismissive of religion. 
Dex +2
Cha +2
Lithe: Gain the effects of the defensive duelist feat (when have finesse weapon and hit, can use reaction to raise AC by proficiency bonus)
Born to the water: Advantage handling ships, fishing, reading the weather and all perception checks on the water. Movement in water is 3/4 movement rather than 1/2
The wavelord's call: Once per long rest you gain a vague idea of the nearest source of water within x miles, this ability prioritizes salt over fresh water. You can drink salt water.
Made for Trade: The Shani engage all nations in trade, making linguistic abilities a must. You know one additional language.

Shani Acolyte
Revered and slightly feared among shani, the Acolytes are the fanatical worshippers of the wave king. One immediate noticeable feature is their pale white skin and frail constitutions. Although most devote their time to occult rituals and carrying out the machinations of the wave king, a select few are chosen to be guards or even assassins. An acolyte is bound to turn many heads, even in non-Shani lands. 
Dex+2
Wis+1
Int+1
Con-1
Born from the waves: 
-You can cast the spell create water, either salt or fresh, once per long rest.
-You can breath under water.
The wave king's command: Your voice flows from His mouth, and all who hear it pay heed. You have advantage on all persuasion checks made against Shani. At 3rd level you gain the spell Suggestion which can be cast once per long rest.
The spell casting stat for this spell is wisdom.
-You can understand, speak and write temple script, a language usually only known by other Acolytes.

