Gods:
Uzerai [*+] - Chaotic Neutral god of earth and the Uzerai, but not humanoid.
Geremon of the infinite repose [*] - lawful neutral death god
Kerack [*] - Chaotic Evil god of strength, war and strife
Ishira->Aumnum-Ra [+] - Lawful Good god of Elves
Sea King, Lord of Waves [*+] - Lawful Neutral god of the ocean, rain and the Shani
Plotweaver, Prince of Shadows [*] - Lawful Evil
The Lady of Secrets - Does this god exist? Theologians have argued back and forth on the topic for centuries. No one has ever found any proof or been granted any spell from her. If she doesn't exist though, how do people know of her, and how do they know she is a she? 

* Provides spells
+ Race Aspected

Thats it! There are very few gods left in this world, most of them having been killed or or forgotten millenia ago. Because of this, the populace has either become atheists, or devolved into many tiny regional cults.

In order to support religious characters aka cleric, paladin, monk etc. Ask for more information about regional cults or try making your own. Religious power can be self supplied like a arcane caster in this world, provided you believe in something strong enough. 

There are no planes, demons, celestials, abyssals, devils etc. There are undead.   


Races: 
Shani = A collection of once human sailors which fractured off long ago. Now a distinct race, they are either pirates and traders or acolytes to the Lord of the Waves. If a religious class, must worship the Sea King.   

Human = The once mighty northern kingdom of man quickly fragmented in times forgotten, first into the ocean loving Shani, then into the Fartherners, barbarians who live in Man's ancestral lands of the Far North. Finally, and most recently, fracturing again into north and south. 

Elves = At the height of both Man and Elves power they waged a terrible war, in which both sides used terrible magic. Eventually Man won. Such was the devastation that they found their forests burned to desert and the world tree reduced to a dessicated stump. Their god, Ishira, shattered, becoming Aumnum-Ra, the demigod of elvish sorrow and the Suture Queen, a reclusive mystical healer.     

Half-Elf = Since their fall, entrepreneurial Men and dissatisfied Elves have mingled in trade and politics. Their relationships almost always favored Man.

Uzerai = Completely Foreign and mysterious to all humanoid races, these silicates share a direct link to their god mind Uzerai. There are only around a thousand of these in human lands, but they have sometimes been known to seek their own life, becoming adventurers, miners or mercenaries. If you want to play as one, tell me very soon so I can come up with stats...




Political Powers:
The Shani = A very strange combination of merchant oligopoly, religious theocracy, and monarchy. Functionally, the merchant oligarchs control the country, vying for power and money as well as trade with the other powers. The church weighs in infrequently, mostly in internal affairs or when the Sea King exerts his will directly. Finally, there is a nominal monarch, which is ruled by whoever can steal the crown from the previous king. Currently held by the Mad King Marthih Layre, and has been so for the last hundred years. Woman can and have held the crown.

The Southerners = Straight up Feudal Monarchy. Functionally, there are three other powerful dukes that the king must run things by, the most powerful of which, Lord Gerrant, launched his own war against the North about fifteen years ago. The king is thought of as bumbling, but well liked. Tensions remain high with the North. More religious than the north.

The Northerners = Benevolent Military Dictatorship, currently ruled by Supreme Commander Durand and his generals. Military and political decisions are made by the cabal of generals. Economic decisions are made by merchant families. Social decisions are enforced by a strict set of written laws and a collection of judges and lawyers. Much power is decentralized to the cities themselves. Rule of law and adherence to contracts is a key part of society.

The Fartherners = Tribal. "King" makes external decisions and trade pacts, almost always with the north, although sometimes with the Shani. King and Tribal leaders compete for internal politics. "King" is decided by a tournament of intelligence held every ten years or on death of the last king or, rarely, overthrown or assassinated by a powerful tribal leader. Woman can and have held the "kingship"     

Elves = Not really a power. Do not interact with other nations. Individuals have been known to trade, usually with northerners. Ruled in all matters and for all time by the demigod Aumnum-Ra, blessed be his sorrow. 

Uzerai = Completely inscrutable. They live underground somewhere. Scholars believe there are more of them, but they seem to be ok with not interfering with the surface nations.