Schrek is a influential and well known business man. His work and life ambition is for his son who is his only reminder of his late wife. His son, who has a new child, is a public defendant. A job which his on sees as a way for a rich socialite to give back to society but at the cost of not being well paid. Growing up in wealth, he is well intentioned but assumes he will always be provided for.

In reality however, Schrek's recent investments haven't been doing too well, a decade long economic crash has left most of his investments, including those he made for his son, worthless. Worried about the future for sons future, he has scraped together enough money for one last investment. Unfortunatley, this plan, a new powerplant, has recently been found to be made flawed. He can't have the plant not go into production without sacrificing a good future for his son and grandson. He also has to hide his actions from his son, who would be shocked at his father's illegal actions.


Bruce Wayne is shaken at the departure of his love interest Vicky Vale. At the heart of their conflict was Bruce's divided attention between his life as Bruce Wayne and as Batman. It is left unclear as to whether he told her of his true identity, but even if he had, the constant pull of his crimefighting could obviously strain even a solid relationship. His work has to come first. 

Despite this, he feels abandoned and perhaps unrewarded for the sheer effort going into batman. Having never found a woman like Vale, and with her loss acting as a reflection for the loss of his parents, Bruce throws himself into his work, distasting from all aspects of Bruce Wayne, even from Alfred.


Oswald Cobblepot is the son of a former aristocrat. However, his awkwardness, exacerbated by hip dysplasia induced limp which manifested in his early teens at boarding school earned him social ostracization both from his colleagues and from his parents. Although he longed for a spot in school governance and to be acknowledged by his father, his uncharismatic appearance and mannerisms earned him no love from either. Instead, the other berated him and called him the Penguin because of his peculiar way of walking and rotund figure, caused by his inability to properly exercise. On his father's death it is revealed that the fortune is to be solely passed to his mother, a foreigner, who has now left for her home country.

With almost nothing to his name, the penguin has gotten by working his umbrella enterprise, which, while mildly successful even in the recession, earns him scorn from other socialites because of its commonness. He longs for so much more, to be articulate, to prove he is worthy of his family's name and to prove he is the equal of the elite who have, throughout his life, scorned him. Towards this end, he has decided to run for Mayor, even given his scant chances. Imagine his horror to hear that his childhood taunt has followed him to his adult life. Can he ever be free of The Penguin?    




