As part of research into population pacification, the tyrannical government appoints Tech as head.
Tech does his work and comes up with two promising technologies.
The first is a fast acting electro shock treatment which reorganizes brain chemistry to be as close as possible to a given baseline.
The second is a much slower acting CRISPR variant that deadens the higher functioning parts of the brain, making it hard to concentrate and induces headaches when too much mental effort is exerted.

The problem with the first is that is very apparent. Someone familiar with the individual would very clearly tell that they have changed.
The second doesn't have this problem but takes a very long time to come into affect because although the change is relatively quick, it takes time for the person to in some sense condition themselves to not think too hard about things. 

The problem of the second is that the long term population affects are detrimental to their goals. They want smart yet servile humans, not brain dead ones. In addition, care must be taken that the affect doesn't taint the whole population. Suggests chemical version rather than self perpetuating virus, is denied.

The research is conducted with the help of the older ones, and meets their goal for slow and insidious control of the population.

Tech is concerned and talks to main resistance senator of some sort. Senator is concerned at first as Tech tells him his misgivings. However, it becomes clear through conversation that the senator has already been turned via the first technique. Tech is dragged away.

--------------------------------------------------

Through the forced deadening viral agent, a new and somewhat uncontrolled effect emerges. Since the retrovirus isn't controllable, it has mutated in unexpected ways. It both follows evolutionary pressure but also creates its own favorable conditions, like sand and water flowing together. 

In this situation, it has manifested a low level gestalt intelligence through delayed communication of individuals that are infected. Literally through phone calls and in person conversations. Using this, it is able to spread faster and survive attempts to destroy it.

The effects are very subtle, taking the form of simple urges. Stronger forcing would make it more apparent, so those versions have been eradicated. With the exception of the subtle urges, it has no major symptoms since the versions of it that did were destroyed. It has little to no tax on the mental well being of the individual and in fact as mutated out the dullness, since that decreased the likeliness of the carrier to interact with others. 

Only the total and extensive surveillance of the controlling government has allowed its peons to figure this out. But they're not sure what to do about it. They notice increased communication traffic, and on the people that they are following that they are also more communicative. They note that the thing might be symbiotic since the people who have it are more social and are happier with it.

Is this all the expected plan of the elder ones? Or have things escaped their control? Or is the chaos mere a separate facet of their original intentions?

