Far in the future the nations of the planet discovered the secret of the atom. With this power, they unleashed heaven's fire on one another. Humanity came to the brink of destruction. Vast swathes of land lay poisoned, foul wastelands whose very soil causes death for even the strongest. The ecosystem shattered irreparably, and incapable of supporting the vastness of mankind, the survivors crawled over one another like ants. 

It has been a hundred years since the end of the world and yet, some still live. The lesson learned from the holocaust burned deep, and the people of earth tried to do away with the divisions that had separated them, those that survived collected in the parts of the scarred world that could still support life, or stole away to the few colonies that had escaped that fire on the the moon and mars. 

But it turns out that the flaw of division runs core to society, and through the logistics and necessity of feeding, organizing, researching and planning, new divisions formed, vast corporations, some centers of knowledge, others churning masses of employment. They snarled and bit until only a handful survived, and upon the exhausted remainders of mankind, these bloated kings feasted.

This is the year 2050, and this is the life that the shattered remains of society leads. 

Novocore-Chemical and biological innovations foundered in the years following the calamity, but recently, great breakthroughs have been made. Their scientist toil endlessly in dark labs and false sunlight, breeding radiation resistant plants, bio-medical devices, mutagens, and poisons.

Lucient-Artificial intelligence and computerized research, Lucient provides the brains for robots and the employees needed to run the old interfaces whose workings have been lost to time. Their administrators and their systems keep careful eye on the logistics of the remaining human cities, and decide who lives and dies indirectly through a single swipe of their console. 

Solar General-The mechanisms of man before the calamity were elegant and almost artful. These devices did not fair well in the horrid environment following the nuclear Armageddon. Solar creates mechanism for today's world, from the sturdy metal bodies for Lucient's robot brains to powerplants, to rockets and armaments. 

Arm United-Rather than science or engineering, Arm United is everyone's military. Their soldiers for hire are a common site around factories, headquarters, and research buildings alike. They are known to put down strikes and support them, wherever the coin leads. It is not only possible for their employees to be on both sides of a combat but also common. They maintain a rivalry with several smaller armories, but ARM is the clear hegemon.

A uneasy and sometimes violent relationship exists between these four titans of industry. One day they might cooperate, the other they might attempt to sabotage, assassinate or hack their opponents. The common people are nothing before their squabbles, and thousands suffer daily from perceived slights. 

Although organized crime is squashed by these titans, they are more than happy to fund killings, beatings or other harassment of their enemies' employees. Random acts of violence and mental instability are not only common but almost mundane, an consequence of the inhuman stress and demands of these companies. The crazed stab one another and other citizens amid dark overpasses, cold nights and lonesome airlocks. 

The few megacities that survived are dark overcrowded disease rampant places where untold billions toil, some never leaving their city their entire lives. A privileged few can travel in some of the few and massively expensive craft capable of traveling through the nuclear wastelands.

The orbital mines and habs are slightly better, if only because the vast majority of their populace starved during the calamity. Solar general maintains a choke hold over the secret labs Novocore and Lucient keep in hidden craters and asteroids.  