Mount and Blade Warband is one of the best games ever made IMO.

Background
For those of you who haven't had the opportunity to play this gem, Mount and Blade: Warband is a combination strategy/3rd person rpg set in a fictional medieval setting.
You play as the leader of the titular warband, collecting money, weapons, armor, companions, fighters, prestige and land. The goals are self set, lending it a sandbox feel. 

Banditry, mercantilism, slave trading, knighthood and kinghood are all within reach as you romp across Calradia in top down view gathering supplies and men or evading larger forces.

Upon engaging in combat, you switch to a third person view of your own character. Here your personal skills as a fighter will be tested, and you can specialize in a staggeringly large array of weapons from polearms, swords and throwing javelins to bows and crossbows, any combination of which can be combined with horse riding.

However, you are not in the fight alone, you fight along side your collected army and companions and can issue tactical commands, turning elderscrollsesque combat into something much deeper.

Strengths

Openness of play
There is no plot or rigid mission structure to this game. You go where and when you want to go. This is supported by AI armies and caravan movements, creating the appearance of a dynamic world around you. As the game goes on, and you have seen all of the mechanics, the game starts to appear more like a very interesting simulation in which you merely play a small yet significant part, not unlike the world map of Dwarf Fortress.

Challenge Level
The game scales pretty well, both in overworld tactics mode as well as in 3rd person rpg mode. Defeating a much larger army is dutifully difficult, and even getting control of one tiny town is a major accomplishment. I compare the challenge to crusader Kings as well, but field difficult challenges, some even overwhelmingly so, yet feel increasingly more programmatic as the game progress (although at 70 hours, I would say it served its purpose well)   

Music
Like crusader kings, Mount and Blade can boast of memorable orchestral pieces, which, while well composed, are unfortunately limited in number.

Price
For 10$ on sale in Steam this game was a steal.

Weaknesses 

Graphics
I don't care too much for this sort of thing, but for a game which wasn't visually stunning in 2007 when it came out, its cookie cutter character models and low quality textures have not aged well.

Overland Movement
At first, traverssing the seemingly massive overworld map is fun and exciting. A bit of logistics plays into things as you need to ensure a health supply of food, gold and inventory space for your band. However, at about the 10th hour you begin wishing there was a fast travel option. 

Little Replay Value
Although the map is somewhat large, and although you can configure your character and army to whatever style you wish, the map is static and the factions all feel the same. In this sense, it has the same problems as Stellaris. Even large battles get tiresome, and small ones almost instantly so. Of course the game offers an auto resolve option for its battles, but after much like the Total War series, you always come ahead by actually playing it out, especially if fielding elite units. After 70 hours, there is not much worth returning to that I haven't done already. This is markedly unlike Crusader Kings which, in addition to its ridiculous number of expansion packs, has a different feel starting in different places and as different cultures and religions.

Overall

Despite aging graphics and gameplay that eventually wears down over time, after 70 hours of solid playing the game remains on the top of my list. A great companion to Total War and Crusader Kings.


