True to its title, An American in Paris is about a former Jewish Argentinian exchange student in East Berlin dealing with the increasing hardships of Soviet rule, all while helping his misanthropic mentor try to solve a limited form of Golbach's Conjecture. It is a heartwarming tale of striving for intellectual expression even as ones own physical life is bound. Even though one knows the ending going in, it is always hard to swallow the harsh and sudden fate of the main characters especially since they seemed to be so close to...

Wait. Thats not right at all.

I've messed up my cards.

An American in Paris is about... An American in Paris. Our main character, a former soldier, has decided to stay in Paris because he has always wanted to be a painter. He is accompanied by a famous singer and a talented but lazy pianist, all of whom live above a cafe.

As the story progresses, the main character is approached by a well off heiress who claims interest in his artwork. Through a series of events, while the heiress tries to gain his affections, he instead falls in love with a completely different woman, who unbeknownst to him is the singer's finance. The pianist figures all this out. How Shakespearean.

#Strengths

###Dat Talent

This movie portrays at least three different types of professional talent: singing, piano playing, and dancing, which itself can be divided into tap dancing and ballet. Thats a lot of skill for one movie. Its all good. Although I, looking back on the film from the reasonably safe vantage point of 2016, can say that the music is a bit sporadic and that the artistic interludes don't contribute greatly to the plot, I am comfortable writing that off as a sign of the times. 

All the art portrayed in the movie is of the highest caliber. 

Additional props to the stage designers. Whenever I thought I had identified the back drop, a character would jump or run into it, making my mind break for just a few seconds.

###Comedy

Perhaps it was the company I watched the movie in (small cinema where everyone was clapping at the end of songs and reacting to particularly striking lines of dialog) but I thought it had its legitimately funny scenes. Of course there was the slapstickesque impersonation that the main character indulged in, but the scene where the pianist learns that the two are dating the same woman is hilarious.

#Weaknesses

###The Quality of the Cut I was Watching

Restored or not, the audio quality was lacking. I literally couldn't understand anything the characters were saying for the first ten or so minutes. I couldn't even tell what language they were speaking. Fortunately, this did not extend to the visuals, past the occasional static. Although the quality improved, the lower notes of the songs were completely ruined and the change over (presumably from one original source material to another) was accompanied by a brain spike of a popping sound.  

One further consequence of the bad sound quality was that it was hard to mentally sync up the tap dancing happing on screen and the tapping sound I was hearing. It plunged what would otherwise have been breath taking displays of skill into a multimedial uncanny valley.

###The fate of the Secondary Characters

The film succeeded in making me interested in its characters. However, it barely resolves the fate of the main characters. At the ending of the film launches into a several minute long finale of a ballet. As this was happening, a part of my mind realized how unhappy I would be if the movie just ended there. 

For the secondary characters, it does, which is unfortunate. If a Shakespearean love tetrahedron is what they were going for, they could have ended the story with a similarly Shakespearean triple wedding. 

Indulge my fantasy: Hearts warmed and brains conquered by the mind altering power of love displayed by the main characters, The Heiress and Singer fall for one another instantly. The Pianist, finally getting to perform: at his friend's double wedding, locks eyes with the female American art student from the beginning of the film. They both fall madly in love with one another, exceeding even their love for their own art. Commence triple wedding as stars light the Paris skyline over the Seine.  
